[Concept Entry] Luau: Functions #3844 (#3845)
Codecademy/docs: content/luau/concepts/functions/functions.md

---
Title: 'Functions in Luau'
Description: 'Functions evaluate sets of operations to determine outputs based on given inputs.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Programming Concepts'
  - 'Code Reusability'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'advanced-luau-programming'
---

**Functions** are one of the fundamental building blocks in programming. They allow you to encapsulate code that performs a specific task into a reusable block. This helps in managing and organizing your code, especially in complex game development projects.

## Declaring Functions in Luau

In Luau, you declare a function using the following syntax:

```pseudo
function functionName(parameter1, parameter2, ...)
  <function body>
  return <return value>
end
```

> In the code above, you declare a function using `function` keyword, `functionName` is the name of the function `(parameter1, parameter2, ...)` are input variables. The `function body` contains the code to execute, and the `return <return value>` statement outputs a result. The function ends with `end`, encapsulating its operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the code above, you declare a function using the `function` keyword, `functionName` is the name of the function `(parameter1, parameter2, ...)` are input variables. The `function body` contains the code to execute, and the `return <return value>` statement returns the result. The function ends with the `end` keyword, encapsulating its operations.
```

Author: Thank you! This is done.

### Function Declaration Example

```lua
function greet(name)
  return "Hello, " .. name
end

print(greet("Alex"))  -- Output: Hello, Alex
```

## Parameters and Return Statement

Parameters are variables that act as placeholders for the values passed to the function. The `return` statement is used to specify the output of the function.

### Using Parameters and Return Statement

```lua
function addNumbers(num1, num2)
  return num1 + num2
end

> print(addNumbers(5, 7))  -- Output: 12

Reviewer: Please Add a small explanation of the code like you have done beautifully with Syntax code at the start.
Like addNumbers is the Function name , num1, num2 are the parameters, etc.

Author: Thank you! This is done.

---
Title: 'Functions in Luau'
Description: 'Functions evaluate sets of operations to determine outputs based on given inputs.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Programming Concepts'
  - 'Code Reusability'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'advanced-luau-programming'
---

> **Functions** are one of the fundamental building blocks in programming. They allow you to encapsulate code that performs a specific task into a reusable block. This helps in managing and organizing your code, especially in complex game development projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Functions** are one of the fundamental building blocks in programming. They allow the encapsulation of code that performs a specific task into a reusable block. This helps in managing and organizing code, especially in complex game development projects.
```
We avoid first- and second-person pronouns in Docs

## Declaring Functions in Luau

> In Luau, you declare a function using the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Luau, a function is declared using the following syntax:
```

```pseudo
function functionName(parameter1, parameter2, ...)
  <function body>
  return <return value>
end
```

> In the code above, you declare a function using the `function` keyword, `functionName` is the name of the function `(parameter1, parameter2, ...)` are input variables. The `function body` contains the code to execute, and the `return <return value>` statement returns the result. The function ends with the `end` keyword, encapsulating its operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the code above, a function is declared using the `function` keyword, `functionName` is the name of the function `(parameter1, parameter2, ...)` are input variables. The `function body` contains the code to execute, and the `return <return value>` statement returns the result. The function ends with the `end` keyword, encapsulating its operations.
```

### Function Declaration Example

> 

Reviewer 2: There should be a sentence introducing the code block and summarizing what it does.

```lua
function greet(name)
  return "Hello, " .. name
end

print(greet("Alex"))  -- Output: Hello, Alex
```

## Parameters and Return Statement

Parameters are variables that act as placeholders for the values passed to the function. The `return` statement is used to specify the output of the function.

> 
> ### Using Parameters and Return Statement
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

```lua
function addNumbers(num1, num2)
  return num1 + num2
end

print(addNumbers(5, 7))  -- Output: 12
```

In the above function, `addNumbers` is the function's name, `num1` and `num2` are its parameters. The function adds these parameters and returns their sum using the `return` keyword. When called with 5 and 7, it returns 12, displayed by the print statement.

## Functions in Use

Functions can be used for various purposes, from performing calculations to manipulating strings and more.

### Example: Calculating Area

> 

Reviewer 2: We need a sentence introducing the code block and summarizing what it does.

```lua
function calculateArea(length, width)
  return length * width
end

local area = calculateArea(10, 5)

> print("The area is:", area)  -- Output: The area is: 50

Reviewer 2: Instead of a comment, put the output in a ` ```shell` block after the example. Like this:

````
This example results in the following output:

```shell
Output from code block
```
````

```

### Example: Returning Multiple Values

> Luau functions can return multiple values. This feature can be particularly useful when you want to return more than one result from a function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Luau functions can return multiple values. This feature can be useful when it's necessary to return more than one result from a function.
```

```lua
function calculateDimensions(area, perimeter)
  local length = perimeter / 4
  local width = area / length
  return length, width  -- Returns both length and width
end

local length, width = calculateDimensions(50, 30)

> print("Length:", length, "Width:", width)  -- Output: Length: 7.5 Width: 6.6666666666667

Reviewer 2: Instead of a comment, put the output in a ` ```shell` block after the example. Like this:

````
This example results in the following output:

```shell
Output from code block
```
````
